GEOG5003M_AW

README file included with submission of Assignment 1 for GEOG35003M - Programming for Geographical Information Analysis. 

Code is used for the creation of an Agent Based Model (ABM) in which a selection of agents interact with their environment 
and incur changes to their characteristics.
Once created, agents are modified +/- 1 based on random number generation. This process is completed 100 times. 
Agents interact with their enivornment. The environment was generated by importing CSV data. 
As agents move across the environment they take in resources which are then contained within their own store. As agents 
move their stores will increase. 
Agent interaction with the environment are displayed using an animated matplotlib scatter plot within a Graphical User 
Interface (GUI). 

Included in this GitHub repository are three files in additon to this README. 
Firstly the CSV file - in.txt which contains a collection of data used to create the environment. 
AgentFramework.py is the code used to create the Agent Class and functions. 
Model.py is the main file of code which executes the ABM, the AgentFramework file is imported into Model.py, therefore all 
files need to be saved within the same directory. 


AGENTFRAMEWORK
--------------
AgentFramework.py contains the creation of the Agent Class. This creates a single agent class so that when the class is 
instantiated this runs. It is the blueprint for creating agents which all posses the same behaviour. 
The Agent class contains the following functions:
  - def _init_: constructor called when an object is created from the class, the following attributes are initialised: 
    create x, create y, pass environment onto the agent, create a store and an array which contains all created agents. 
  - def move: move agents position based on a random number. Import random module and use random.random to generate a 
    random number between 0 and 1. If the number is less than 0.5 then x and y are increment by 1, if greater than 0.5, x 
    and y are decremented by 1. This function allows agents to be moved randomly.
  - def eat: allows interaction between agents and environment. As agent moves through environment this function checks 
    value of environment if greater than 10 then the agent takes 10 from the environement into its store. 
  - def getx, setx, gety and sety: these four functions utilise the property attribute in Python. It enables x and y to be
    called using self.x or self.y. 
  - def set_all_agents: creates a list of agents which are passed into the agents so each agent knows the location of other 
    agents. 
  - def ditance_between: calculates distance between the instance of the agent class and another agent. 
  - def share_with_neighbours: enables interaction between agents. Function creates the dist variable which is equal to 
    distance_between. If this distance is less than neighbourhood (50), then the stores are shared between the agents by 
    taking the average store of the two agents and assigning the average to each. 


MODEL
-----
Model.py contains the code for creation of the ABM. 
At the top of the code modules are imported which enable additional functionality. 
Modules include: AgentFramework, matplotlib, matplotlib.use('TkAgg'), tkinter, random, matplotlib.pyplot, time and csv. 

Set up:
  - Begin by creating a start variable and assign it time.process_time() to calculate code execution time. 
  - random.seed() is used to ensure the random module generates the same number sequence every time the file runs. 
  - Create three variables: num_of_agents, num_of_iterations, and neighbourhood - assign the values 10, 100, 50. 
  
Create environment:
  - Create an empty array called environment.
  - Import the CSV file in.txt. 
  - Read each row in the CSV and append to empty array row_list. Then append row_list to the environment array. 
  
Create agents, interactions and animation:
  - Create an empty array for adding agents. 
  - Use for loop to call the Agent class for 10 iterations and then append create agents to the empty agents array. 
  - Loop over all the agents to append to set_all_agents list which allows each agent to know the location of other agents.
  - def update(frame_number): is used to create a scatter plot depicting agents as they move across the environment and 
    change store values.
  - Use matplotlib.scatter to plot agents within environment and FuncAnimation to make an animated plot.
  - def gen_function and carry_on variable are used to control at what point the animation stops running. 
  
Create GUI:
  - def run(): used to get the animation to render within the GUI. 
  - Remaining code is used to create and configure the GUI window. 
  

